the reason the Mediterranean is so
vulnerable is that it's constantly
evaporating it loses three times more
water through evaporation than it
receives from rivers and rain the
Straits of Gibraltar allow water from
the Atlantic to top hop the
Mediterranean if they were to close the
entire Mediterranean would banish all
two-and-a-half million square kilometers
of it it's happened before
six million years ago the continents of
Africa and Europe collided closing the
Straits of Gibraltar
starved of water the Mediterranean Sea
began to evaporate
it took just 2,000 years to transform
the Mediterranean Sea into a desert
the legacy of this vanished ocean is
found half a kilometer underneath the
island of Sicily this is salt
when the water evaporated from the
Mediterranean this is what it left
behind millions millions of tons of it
they've been mining it for 50 years
but astonishingly there's so much salt
here they could keep mining for a
million years without running out
there's so much if even built their own
Chapel out of salt two hundred meters
underground